Well, now we can talk a bit about modules.
In that case,
match each module loading mechanism
with its correct characteristics.
So we have CommonJS, AMD, UMD, and ESM, or
asynchronous module definition and
universal module definition.
And then either focuses on
client-side asynchronous loading,
allowing modules to be fetched and
executed in a non-blocking manner.
Supports various environments,
accommodating both server and
client-side usage.
Used mainly in server side contexts, and
this approach loads module sequentially.
Or uses static syntax for
imports and exports.
So the right answer here is CommonJS
is used mainly in server-side contexts,
this approach loads module sequentially.
AMD focuses on client-side
asynchronous loading,
allowing modules to be fetched and
executed in a non-blocking manner.
UMD supports various environments, and ESM
uses static syntax for imports, exports.
So CommonJS, you're probably used
to it if you are using node.
It is with require modules, exports.
The modules are loaded synchronously
when we use require, typically,
used on server side.
Yeah, we can mainly use it in Node.js.
If you're running this in the browser, it
won't work, so that requires bundling and
transpilation.
And because it is synchronous,
it can cause performance issues,
if you know you're loading large modules.
Then we have AMD, and yeah,
so whenever you see define or
require like this, you know that
you're using asynchronous loading.
This is mainly only used in browsers.
Yeah, you can't really use it in Node.js,
also doesn't really make sense to do that.
Then we have universal module definition,
and
this works both client side and
server side.
So if you're a library author or
if you are working with legacy systems and
you gotta support a lot of environments,
then you might wanna use UMD.
But honestly, lately,
you won't see too much.
This essentially says like, all right,
if define exists that we just saw
with AMD, then just load AMD.
And otherwise, if we have module, then,
we're running that in CommonJS in node, so
then use module that exports,
all that stuff.
But as you can see, it can easily lead
to larger file sizes because we have to
support multiple environments, so
it's not always perfect but yeah.
And then we have ESM, which you're
probably used to with imports, exports.
So this also allows for static analysis,
tree shaking and more efficient bundling.
This is all new and
the new module environment in JavaScript,
cuz it allows JavaScript to analyze the
import without having to execute the file,
and this was a bigger issue with require.
We couldn't tree shake any code
cuz we only loaded the code with
require once it actually
reached that line.
But now with ESM,
JavaScript can be like, all right, well,
I know that I'm not using certain parts
of the code, so we can tree shake it.
We can remove dead code without having to
actually run that file before doing so.
But this is not supported by all
browsers yet, so in some cases,
you still have to bundle it, transpilate
to work in your browser, but yeah.
Then there's question 32.
Put the logs in the correct order.
So this is a file that uses
both require and import, so
it uses both CommonJS and modules.
We have file1.js, so
that's a regular one that logs file1.
We have file2.mjs, so
it's a module that logs file2.
Then we have file3 which has a top
level await and a set timeout in there.
File4 is also a module and
then file5 is a regular CommonJS module.
So in what order will the logs
be when we execute this script?
So you don't really have to look at or
create require or like that require,
I'm just using that cuz I'm
assuming that this index.js file on
the left-hand side is like index.mjs.
So in that case, to use require,
we have to load it from module,
but that's not really part of the question
per se, but just for technical accuracy.
All right, and the right answer here
is file2, file3, file1, file5, file4.
So the easiest way to show
this is through code.
I think this is the only one I have.
Wait, I'm just gonna remove this one,
new terminal.
All right, so actually,
I'm just gonna keep using this.
So here,
we have the same file that I just showed.
So when we run this index.mjs, yeah,
you'll see that file2 gets locked first,
then 3, 1, 5, 4.
So I just added a kind of a longer timeout
here, cuz in the example, it was zero.
In which case, it'll lock a lot quicker.
But we're using a top level await here,
and this essentially blocks all module
loading like how the module graph
works until this promise has resolved.
So as you can see,
when I added the one second timeout,
it has file2 and
only then will it load everything else.
So this is kind of something to keep in
mind when you're using a top level await,
cuz this is just a regular
import statement.
But more than that, so this kinda goes
back to that hoisting thing again.
So the imports kind of get hoisted, so
you can kind of see it as like this.
They don't actually physically get moved
to the top of the file, but whenever we're
using an import statement, JavaScript
will already kind of execute and
analyze them before
the file is actually run.
So that's only with the import
statements here, so file2 and
file3 get loaded first
cuz they have the import.
And then we have require, and
this just gets loaded as it
actually reaches that line.
We're like, this doesn't get hoisted.
So this is the third one, or file1.
Then we call the get module, and
then we're using non-import statement, but
like a dynamic import function,
and this returns a promise.
This returns a promise, so
this gets added to the event like that,
but the require is synchronous.
So this still gets, or this gets,
[LAUGH] look, first I'm so
bad at explaining how a module loads.
But require is synchronous, so
this gets loaded first, and
then we have this import registerpromise
so that gets resolved last.
Now, if I made this the promise,
so I'm using the dynamic import.
You can see that it's much better, cuz we
have that time out here with the await.
Just imagine that this is maybe a database
connection that we wanna set up, and
it just takes a long time.
In that case, you might just wanna
use the dynamic import instead.
And this is also good cuz we are usually
using imports in a browser environment.
And in which case,
it actually makes a network request, so
that has to be asynchronous.
So using a dynamic import like this, maybe
even using await import is, in most cases,
a lot more perform than
just using a static import,
if you're using any other asynchronous
code in there with that top level await.
But yeah, so import, this is dynamic.
You can do whatever you want with it.
I don't know if this was like some,
you can do await import, that kinda stuff.
So yeah, require asynchronous imports,
get hoisted.
It's statically analyzed unless it's an
import function like this, in which case,
it's a promise.
Cool.
Is there one more?
Last one on modules.
So which of the following statements
correctly describe the difference between
require and import?
So require can be called conditionally
while import statements cannot.
Import statements are hoisted but
require calls are not.
Required synchronously loads modules while
import can load modules asynchronously,
and import allows for static analysis and
tree shaking, but required does not.
So they're all correct.
So require can be called conditionally,
while imports statements cannot,
that is true.
What can dynamic or conditionally
call is the import function but
not the import statements.
And import statements are hoisted,
but require calls are not.
Yeah, we just saw that.
Import statements are hoisted, we create
that module lexical environment for
the modules.
They get analyzed before
we actually run the script.
Require calls is just kind
of like a regular function.
We set a variable equal to
a require function, and
it will only get defined as we're
actually executing the code.
And require synchronously loads modules,
while import can load
modules asynchronously.
That's true, we can use the import
function to load modules asynchronously,
require cannot.
And import allows for static analysis and
tree shaking, but required does not, yeah.
Same thing with a hoisting,
it can already scan the files before
actually running it to tree shake and
eliminate any dead code and so on.
Required can't do that.